docs/src/docPages/privacy-policy.md, before:

# Privacy Policy

## toc

## Introduction
We value your privacy and question everything that stores or processes your personal information. With that in mind, we still need a few external services to publish tiptap.

Missing the cookie banner? Sorry, we don’t use cookies here. 🍪

We don’t provide email support for tiptap, but if you have some legal issues, privacy or security concerns, send us an email to [humans@tiptap.dev](mailto:humans@tiptap.dev). For everything else, [please use GitHub issues](https://github.com/ueberdosis/tiptap-next/issues).

## List of external services

### Community (GitHub)
We use [GitHub](http://github.com/) to store our code, collaborate, give support, and offer sponsorships. Check their [privacy statement](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement) to learn more about what data they process.

### Hosting (Netlify)
We use Netlify to host the documentation. It features continuous deployment from Git across a global application delivery network and full integration with Let’s Encrypt. If you want to know more, [read Netlify’s privacy policy](https://www.netlify.com/privacy/).

### Tracking (Simple Analytics)
We use [Simple Analytics](https://simpleanalytics.com/) to gain insight about our visitors in general. It doesn’t track individual users per se and does not store any personal identifiable information. Go to their documentation to find out what Simple Analytics collects (and more importantly what they don’t).

Or have a look at the [public analytics dashboard](https://simpleanalytics.com/tiptap.dev) they provide. It’s not a stripped down version, it’s the exact same dashboard we use to check the traffic.

### Search (Algolia)
We use [Algolia DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/) to offer search functionality for the documentation. They crawl the same pages as you see once every day. If you click on the search field on top of this page, their search interface pops up.

If you want to know more about what data they collect and process, [read their privacy policy](https://www.algolia.com/policies/privacy/).

## Suggesting alternatives
If you know a good self-hosted version of any of the mentioned services, create an issue on GitHub or send us an email to [humans@tiptap.dev](mailto:humans@tiptap.dev).

Commit message:

docs: add plausible to the privacy policy

docs/src/docPages/privacy-policy.md, after:

# Privacy Policy

## toc

## Introduction
We value your privacy and question everything that stores or processes your personal information. With that in mind, we still need a few external services to publish tiptap.

Missing the cookie banner? Sorry, we don’t use cookies here. 🍪

We don’t provide email support for tiptap, but if you have some legal issues, privacy or security concerns, send us an email to [humans@tiptap.dev](mailto:humans@tiptap.dev). For everything else, [please use GitHub issues](https://github.com/ueberdosis/tiptap-next/issues).

## List of external services

### Community (GitHub)
We use [GitHub](http://github.com/) to store our code, collaborate, give support, and offer sponsorships. Check their [privacy statement](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/site-policy/github-privacy-statement) to learn more about what data they process.

### Hosting (Netlify)
We use Netlify to host the documentation. It features continuous deployment from Git across a global application delivery network and full integration with Let’s Encrypt. If you want to know more, [read Netlify’s privacy policy](https://www.netlify.com/privacy/).

### Tracking (Plausible)
We use [Plausible](https://plausible.io) to gain insight about our visitors in general. It doesn’t track individual users per se and does not store any personal identifiable information. Go to [their documentation](https://plausible.io/data-policy) to find out what Simple Analytics collects (and more importantly what they don’t).

Or have a look at the [public analytics dashboard](https://plausible.io/tiptap.dev) they provide. It’s not a stripped down version, it’s the exact same dashboard we use to check the traffic.

### Tracking (Simple Analytics, deprecated, will be removed soon)
We use [Simple Analytics](https://simpleanalytics.com/) to gain insight about our visitors in general. It doesn’t track individual users per se and does not store any personal identifiable information. Go to their documentation to find out what Simple Analytics collects (and more importantly what they don’t).

Or have a look at the [public analytics dashboard](https://simpleanalytics.com/tiptap.dev) they provide. It’s not a stripped down version, it’s the exact same dashboard we use to check the traffic.

### Search (Algolia)
We use [Algolia DocSearch](https://docsearch.algolia.com/) to offer search functionality for the documentation. They crawl the same pages as you see once every day. If you click on the search field on top of this page, their search interface pops up.

If you want to know more about what data they collect and process, [read their privacy policy](https://www.algolia.com/policies/privacy/).

## Suggesting alternatives
If you know a good self-hosted version of any of the mentioned services, create an issue on GitHub or send us an email to [humans@tiptap.dev](mailto:humans@tiptap.dev).
