docs/src/docPages/guide/store-content.md, before:

# Store content

## toc

## Introduction
You can store your content as a JSON object or as a good old HTML string. Both work fine. And of course, you can pass both formats to the editor to restore your content.

You can store your content as JSON and restore the content from HTML, or the other way around. I don’t know why you would do that, but tiptap wouldn’t care.

## Option 1: JSON
JSON is probably easier to loop through, for example to look for a mention and it’s more like what tiptap uses under the hood. Anyway, if you want to use JSON to store the content we provide a method to retrieve the content as JSON:

```js
const json = editor.getJSON()
```

You can store that in your database (or send it to an API) and restore the document initially like that:

```js
new Editor({
  // …
  content: {
    "type": "document",
    "content": [
      {
        "type": "paragraph",
        "content": [
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "Example Text"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
})
```

Or if you need to wait for something, you can do it later through the editor instance:

```js
editor.setContent({
  "type": "document",
  "content": [
    {
      "type": "paragraph",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "Example Text"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
})
```

## Option 2: HTML
HTML can be easily rendered in other places, for example in emails and it’s wildly used, so it’s probably easier to switch the editor at some point. Anyway, every editor instance provides a method to get HTML from the current document:

```js
const html = editor.getHTML()
```

This can then be used to restore the document initially:

```js
new Editor({
  // …
  content: `<p>Example Text</p>`,
})
```

Or if you want to restore the content later (e. g. after an API call has finished), you can do that too:
```js
editor.commands.setContent(`<p>Example Text</p>`)
```

## Not an option: Markdown

Unfortunately, **tiptap doesn’t support Markdown as an input or output format**. We considered to add support for it, but those are the reasons why we decided to not do it:

* Both, HTML and JSON, can have deeply nested structures, Markdown is flat.
* There are enough packages to convert HTML to Markdown and vice-versa.
* Markdown standards vary.

You should really consider to work with HTML or JSON to store your content, they are perfectly fine for most use cases.

If you still think you need Markdown, ProseMirror has an [example on how to deal with Markdown](https://prosemirror.net/examples/markdown/) and [Nextcloud Text](https://github.com/nextcloud/text) uses tiptap 1 to work with Markdown. Maybe you can learn from them.

That said, tiptap does support [Markdown shortcuts](/examples/markdown-shortcuts) to format your content.

## Generate HTML from ProseMirror JSON
If you need to render the content on the server side, for example to generate the HTML for a blog post which has been written in tiptap, you’ll probably want a way to do just that without an actual editor instance.

That’s what the `generateHTML()` is for. It’s a utility function that renders HTML without an actual editor instance. As an alternative, you can also use tiptap in a [read-only mode](/examples/read-only).

:::info Browser-only rendering
Import a lightweight implementation of `generateHTML()` from `@tiptap/core` if you’re using the function in a browser context only.
:::

<demo name="Api/Schema/GenerateHTML" highlight="6,43-48"/>

Commit message:

docs: move content example to the guide

docs/src/docPages/guide/store-content.md, after:

# Store content

## toc

## Introduction
You can store your content as a JSON object or as a good old HTML string. Both work fine. And of course, you can pass both formats to the editor to restore your content. Here is an interactive example, that exports the content as HTML and JSON when the document is changed:

## Example
<demo name="Guide/StoreContent" highlight="52-60"/>

## Option 1: JSON
JSON is probably easier to loop through, for example to look for a mention and it’s more like what tiptap uses under the hood. Anyway, if you want to use JSON to store the content we provide a method to retrieve the content as JSON:

```js
const json = editor.getJSON()
```

You can store that in your database (or send it to an API) and restore the document initially like that:

```js
new Editor({
  // …
  content: {
    "type": "document",
    "content": [
      {
        "type": "paragraph",
        "content": [
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "Example Text"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  },
})
```

Or if you need to wait for something, you can do it later through the editor instance:

```js
editor.setContent({
  "type": "document",
  "content": [
    {
      "type": "paragraph",
      "content": [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "Example Text"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
})
```

## Option 2: HTML
HTML can be easily rendered in other places, for example in emails and it’s wildly used, so it’s probably easier to switch the editor at some point. Anyway, every editor instance provides a method to get HTML from the current document:

```js
const html = editor.getHTML()
```

This can then be used to restore the document initially:

```js
new Editor({
  // …
  content: `<p>Example Text</p>`,
})
```

Or if you want to restore the content later (e. g. after an API call has finished), you can do that too:
```js
editor.commands.setContent(`<p>Example Text</p>`)
```

## Not an option: Markdown

Unfortunately, **tiptap doesn’t support Markdown as an input or output format**. We considered to add support for it, but those are the reasons why we decided to not do it:

* Both, HTML and JSON, can have deeply nested structures, Markdown is flat.
* There are enough packages to convert HTML to Markdown and vice-versa.
* Markdown standards vary.

You should really consider to work with HTML or JSON to store your content, they are perfectly fine for most use cases.

If you still think you need Markdown, ProseMirror has an [example on how to deal with Markdown](https://prosemirror.net/examples/markdown/) and [Nextcloud Text](https://github.com/nextcloud/text) uses tiptap 1 to work with Markdown. Maybe you can learn from them.

That said, tiptap does support [Markdown shortcuts](/examples/markdown-shortcuts) to format your content.

## Generate HTML from ProseMirror JSON
If you need to render the content on the server side, for example to generate the HTML for a blog post which has been written in tiptap, you’ll probably want a way to do just that without an actual editor instance.

That’s what the `generateHTML()` is for. It’s a utility function that renders HTML without an actual editor instance. As an alternative, you can also use tiptap in a [read-only mode](/examples/read-only).

:::info Browser-only rendering
Import a lightweight implementation of `generateHTML()` from `@tiptap/core` if you’re using the function in a browser context only.
:::

<demo name="Api/Schema/GenerateHTML" highlight="6,43-48"/>
