docs/src/docPages/api/nodes/mention.md, before:

# Mention
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@tiptap/extension-mention.svg?label=version)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tiptap/extension-mention)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@tiptap/extension-mention.svg)](https://npmcharts.com/compare/@tiptap/extension-mention?minimal=true)

Honestly, the mention node is amazing. It adds support for `@mentions`, for example to ping users, *and* provides full control over the rendering.

Literally everything can be customized. You can pass a custom component for the rendering.  All examples use `.filter()` to search through items, but feel free to send async queries to an API or add a more advanced library like [fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/) to your project.

## Installation
```bash
# with npm
npm install @tiptap/extension-mention

# with Yarn
yarn add @tiptap/extension-mention
```

## Dependencies
To place the popups correctly, we’re using [tippy.js](https://atomiks.github.io/tippyjs/) in all our examples. You are free to bring your own library, but if you’re fine with it, just install what we use:

```bash
# with npm
npm install tippy.js

# with Yarn
yarn add tippy.js
```

## Rendering
Currently, we’re supporting custom Vue.js components only. To get the required `VueRenderer` install our Vue.js package:

```bash
# with npm
npm install @tiptap/vue-2

# with Yarn
yarn add @tiptap/vue-2
```

And yes, we plan to support React, too. Meanwhile, you can roll your own `ReactRenderer`, but don’t forget to share it with the community.

It’s also possible to use Vanilla JavaScript, but that is probably a lot more work.

## Settings
| Option         | Type     | Default | Description                                                           |
| -------------- | -------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| HTMLAttributes | `Object` | `{}`    | Custom HTML attributes that should be added to the rendered HTML tag. |
| suggestion     | `Object` | `{ … }` | [Read more](/api/utilities/suggestion)                                |

## Source code
[packages/extension-mention/](https://github.com/ueberdosis/tiptap/blob/main/packages/extension-mention/)

## Usage
<demo name="Nodes/Mention" />

Commit message:

feat: add renderLabel option to mention extension, see #1322

docs/src/docPages/api/nodes/mention.md, after:

# Mention
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@tiptap/extension-mention.svg?label=version)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tiptap/extension-mention)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@tiptap/extension-mention.svg)](https://npmcharts.com/compare/@tiptap/extension-mention?minimal=true)

Honestly, the mention node is amazing. It adds support for `@mentions`, for example to ping users, *and* provides full control over the rendering.

Literally everything can be customized. You can pass a custom component for the rendering.  All examples use `.filter()` to search through items, but feel free to send async queries to an API or add a more advanced library like [fuse.js](https://fusejs.io/) to your project.

## Installation
```bash
# with npm
npm install @tiptap/extension-mention

# with Yarn
yarn add @tiptap/extension-mention
```

## Dependencies
To place the popups correctly, we’re using [tippy.js](https://atomiks.github.io/tippyjs/) in all our examples. You are free to bring your own library, but if you’re fine with it, just install what we use:

```bash
# with npm
npm install tippy.js

# with Yarn
yarn add tippy.js
```

## Rendering
Currently, we’re supporting custom Vue.js components only. To get the required `VueRenderer` install our Vue.js package:

```bash
# with npm
npm install @tiptap/vue-2

# with Yarn
yarn add @tiptap/vue-2
```

And yes, we plan to support React, too. Meanwhile, you can roll your own `ReactRenderer`, but don’t forget to share it with the community.

It’s also possible to use Vanilla JavaScript, but that is probably a lot more work.

## Settings
| Option         | Type     | Default                    | Description                                                           |
| -------------- | -------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| HTMLAttributes | `Object` | `{}`                       | Custom HTML attributes that should be added to the rendered HTML tag. |
| renderLabel    | `String` | `({ options, node }) => …` | Define how a mention label should be rendered.                        |
| suggestion     | `Object` | `{ … }`                    | [Read more](/api/utilities/suggestion)                                |

## Source code
[packages/extension-mention/](https://github.com/ueberdosis/tiptap/blob/main/packages/extension-mention/)

## Usage
<demo name="Nodes/Mention" />
